Unsupported model serving docs (#906)
huggingface/text-generation-inference: docs/source/basic_tutorials/non_core_models.md

# Non-core Model Serving

> TGI supports various LLM architectures (see full list [here](./supported_models)). If you wish to serve a model that is not one of the supported models, TGI will fallback to transformers implementation of that model. This means you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits of TGI, such as continuous batching or streaming outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TGI supports various LLM architectures (see full list [here](./supported_models)). If you wish to serve a model that is not one of the supported models, TGI will fallback to the `transformers` implementation of that model. This means you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits of TGI, such as continuous batching or streaming outputs.
```

You can serve these models using Docker like below 👇 

```bash

> docker run --gpus all --shm-size 1g -p 8080:80 -v $volume:/data ghcr.io/huggingface/text-generation-inference:latest --model-id gpt2

Reviewer: Is there any difference in the command  with normal docker run for supported models?

Author: From what I get there's two type of unsupported models. One is transformers models without custom kernels, and the other one is non-transformer models. For non-transformer models since they have the model implementation inside repo you just need to pass --trust-remote-code and that's it. For transformers models since you don't have any flash attention or rope scaling or additional good features of TGI you don't need to pass anything. (Above code is what I run on my local so I can confirm)

Reviewer 2: Yes, but this appears to be the same as the example in the Quick tour: https://moon-ci-docs.huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/pr_906/en/quicktour. I'd maybe clarify it so users are more confident on what they are doing.

Author: @pcuenca I think it's due to how you still run them the same way, except you can't run with custom flags that is not available for one model, that's why I still added the same command.

Author: I committed your suggestion to clarify this.

```

> If the model you wish to serve is not a transformers model, but weights and implementation is included in the repository, you can still serve the model by passing `--trust-remote-code` flag to `docker run` command like below 👇 

Reviewer: It's still a `transformers` model, usable with the library. It's using remote code.

> If the model you wish to serve is not a transformers model, but weights and implementation is included in the repository, you can still serve the model by passing `--trust-remote-code` flag to `docker run` command like below 👇 

Reviewer: I would also link to the transformers docs on this - https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/custom_models

# Non-core Model Serving

> TGI supports various LLM architectures (see full list [here](./supported_models)). If you wish to serve a model that is not one of the supported models, TGI will fallback to the `transformers` implementation of that model. This means you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits of TGI, such as continuous batching or streaming outputs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TGI supports various LLM architectures (see full list [here](../supported_models)). If you wish to serve a model that is not one of the supported models, TGI will fallback to the `transformers` implementation of that model. This means you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits of TGI, such as continuous batching or streaming outputs.
```

`./supported_models` should be `../supported_models`

> TGI supports various LLM architectures (see full list [here](../supported_models)). If you wish to serve a model that is not one of the supported models, TGI will fallback to the `transformers` implementation of that model. This means you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits of TGI, such as continuous batching or streaming outputs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TGI supports various LLM architectures (see full list [here](../supported_models)). If you wish to serve a model that is not one of the supported models, TGI will fallback to the `transformers` implementation of that model. This means you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits from TGI, such as continuous batching or streaming outputs.
```

Question: is TGI's flash attention coming from BetterTransformer? (Just curious, haven't looked at the code yet). In theory, people could still other optimizations like SDPA from PyTorch 2.0.1, if their models use them, right?

Author: I didn't benchmark them, we were thinking of it as nice to have

Author: I didn't benchmark them, we were thinking of it as nice to have. pinging @Narsil

Reviewer 4: flash attention comes from flash attention tridao's repo.

> You can serve these models using Docker like below 👇 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can serve these models using the same Docker command-line invocation as with fully supported models 👇 
```

```bash
docker run --gpus all --shm-size 1g -p 8080:80 -v $volume:/data ghcr.io/huggingface/text-generation-inference:latest --model-id gpt2
```

> If the model you wish to serve is a custom transformers model, but weights and implementation is included in the repository, you can still serve the model by passing `--trust-remote-code` flag to `docker run` command like below 👇 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the model you wish to serve is a custom transformers model, and its weights and implementation are available in the Hub, you can still serve the model by passing the `--trust-remote-code` flag to the `docker run` command like below 👇 
```

Questions:
- How would we deal with private models that require authentication?
- How would we deal with local models not in the Hub? Would mounting them in the volume and using the full path work?

Author: sure let me clarify.

Author: Gated models are already covered under this section: https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/basic_tutorials/gated_model_access

# Non-core Model Serving

> TGI supports various LLM architectures (see full list [here](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference#optimized-architectures)). If you wish to serve a model that is not one of the supported models, TGI will fallback to transformers implementation of that model. They can be loaded by:

Reviewer: We should be linking to https://huggingface.co/docs/text-generation-inference/supported_models I think

They can be loaded by:

```python
from transformers import AutoModelForCausalLM, AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM

AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained(<model>, device_map="auto")``

#or

AutoModelForSeq2SeqLM.from_pretrained(<model>, device_map="auto")

> ```

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure what's that code is supposed to achieve ? Users are not supposed to run it right ?

I think a mention for `--trust-remote-code` might be nice here.

> This means, you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits of TGI, such as continuous batching, or streaming outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means you will be unable to use some of the features introduced by TGI, such as tensor-parallel sharding or flash attention. However, you can still get many benefits of TGI, such as continuous batching or streaming outputs.
```

> You can serve these models using docker like below 👇 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can serve these models using Docker like below 👇 
```

You can serve these models using the same Docker command-line invocation as with fully supported models 👇 

```bash
docker run --gpus all --shm-size 1g -p 8080:80 -v $volume:/data ghcr.io/huggingface/text-generation-inference:latest --model-id gpt2
```

If the model you wish to serve is a custom transformers model, and its weights and implementation are available in the Hub, you can still serve the model by passing the `--trust-remote-code` flag to the `docker run` command like below 👇 

```bash
docker run --gpus all --shm-size 1g -p 8080:80 -v $volume:/data ghcr.io/huggingface/text-generation-inference:latest --model-id <CUSTOM_MODEL_ID> --trust-remote-code
```

Finally, if the model is not on Hugging Face Hub but on your local, you can pass the path to the folder that contains your model like below 👇 

```bash

> docker run --platform linux/x86_64 --shm-size 1g --net=host -p 8080:80 -v $volume:/data -e CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES= ghcr.io/huggingface/text-generation-inference:latest --model-id <PATH-TO-FOLDER>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# Make sure your model is in the $volume directory
docker run --shm-size 1g -p 8080:80 -v $volume:/data  ghcr.io/huggingface/text-generation-inference:latest --model-id /data/<PATH-TO-FOLDER>
```
